{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf820
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Notes\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\partightenfactor0

\b\fs39\fsmilli19600 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Supersurface - An alternative model for life on the Earth\
A series of videos by SuperStudio from 1972\
There were a series of episodes that depicted five primary acts in human life Life, Education, Ceremony, Love and Death. This one is ceremony\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 The five stories, conceived as a sort of philosophical and anthropological reconstruction of architecture, first appeared, as texts, images and storyboard, on the pages of "Casabella" magazine in 1972 and 1973. \
\
Superstudio felt this was a new way of expanding ideas beyond architecture.
\f0\b\fs39\fsmilli19600 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 "The men who lived underground" abandon an alleged "golden age" and their environments built on order, on peaceful coexistence of old and new objects. By "coming to light", they establish a new way of living and choose "an invisible house" as their dwelling where they can perform new rituals and ceremonies, aiming to a more authentic kind of life.
\f0\b\fs39\fsmilli19600 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 Words and images work together in this and in other films by Superstudio by generating effects of vision and disorientation. Their narration capitalizes on irony, provocation, paradox. It is through this approach that a rigorous discourse upon the architecture and design discipline and their final extents is offered. \
\
 An attempt to refound the role of architecture takes place in this film, based on the idea that human beings are the only creators of their own choices: finally nomadic, they can free themselves from induced needs and behaviors, and pick their own place, everywhere on the Earth's "supersurface". \
\
\
\
Cyprien Gaillard Cities of Gold and Mirrors\
This is in Cancun (city in Mexico that was developed by Mexican gov't as tourist resort in 70s. Film shows scenes that document radical and uncanny culture clashes. Stupid college kids with Mayan ruins behind. Dolphins swimming past brutalist architecutre and a gang member performing a ritualistic dance. \
\
Res and fall of Mayan, Spanish, Mexican and American influences on site, we see and feel both the power of greed and the certainty of its eventual demise.\
\
Video makes it unclear if this is a modern ruin and abandoned by greens, or if the plant life is also a trope meant to evoke the tropical ecology of the resort.\
\
A glass and steel architecture (a symbol of a culture of corporate surveillance) implodes into a pile of dust.\
\
-showing competing cultures and their impotence in the face of the ravages of history. Very ominous feel.\
\
-Seems as though that dolphins and vines will be the only ones to survive.\
-soundtrack from 80s tv show called Mysterious Cities of Gold, which was about Spanish conquistadors\
\
\
}